Okay.
So the first new feature that I'd like to test from our job listings component is our display of the
current page number.
And as a reminder, this comes from our current page computed property.
If I scroll down to look at that properties code, we can see there's actually two scenarios under which
it can operate.
The first is if our query object has a page property, that is what happens when we provide a query
pram of page in the URL.
And the second scenario is if that page property does not exist, or in other words, if that page query
param does not exist, we fall back to this string of one.
So these are both branches of logic that is possible for our component to go through.
So we need to make sure that we have a test for each scenario.
And of course, I always want to bring it back to the user experience.
What is the user seeing in the actual interface?
The user doesn't care about the current page computed property.
We don't want to test that directly.
We want to test that the user sees the right thing right here, given the right circumstance or situation
or context that we provide in our test setup.
All right.
So what I'm going to do here is in my test suite, in my first described block of job listings.
If I scroll all the way to the bottom, I'm going to add another describe block.
And typically, we nest our describe function calls whenever we want to provide additional context or
to set up a scenario or a situation under which we want to make an assertion.
So these IT function calls above kind of exist no matter what the situation is.
This scenario that I want to test exists under a more specific circumstance or context.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to add a describe function call and I'm going to say when params
exclude page number.
In fact, let's make this even more explicit and say when query params exclude page number.
Right.
So instead of adding this kind of logic to the end of an IT function call, I like to categorize and
organize my assertions by putting this logic into a separate described function block.
So a really easy tip that you can follow here is if your test assertion includes the word when, if
you're describing the circumstance under which you're testing, it's a better idea to extract it to
a separate describe function call.
And then inside that describe you can put this specific assertion.
So right here when create params exclude page number, what should my component do?
It displays page number one.
So I'm going to provide my function here, and here's where we're going to write our assertion.
So let's set up our component.
We're going to need query params.
We're going to need a root object, we're going to need a config object, and then we're going to need
our mounted component.
So what we might think of doing is simply creating a query params constant set to an empty object.
Right?
Because our situation that we're testing under here is one under which the component has no query params
and thus no page query params.
Right.
None of this thing right here.
Now this is actually a good idea and I like this.
However, unfortunately we do have a small flaw in our test design and that is if I scroll back up,
you're going to see that we have hardcoded the value page in our query object right here to have a fallback
value of a string of file.
So if we provide an empty object right here for create params, we're not actually ever going to overwrite
this page property and thus we're going to keep that queer param in our test through this implicit create
root function that we're using.
Right.
And we could of course skip this function entirely and pass in a custom root object right here.
There are many different ways we can solve this problem.
We can also get rid of this property entirely right here, but that would require us to specify in every
test below.
I think the simplest solution that we can do to get around this is to simply overwrite this page property.
And one way we can do that, while still honoring the idea of page not existing, is if I define the
page property right here, but explicitly define it as undefined.
So this is as good as the page property not existing in my query object.
So that's when I pass this to the root.
It's going to give us the exact same scenario that we want here where this page property does not exist
because undefined is going to be what we evaluated right here.
That is going to be false.
So we're going to jump to this string of one, which is the exact scenario that we're testing here when
creep rams exclude that page number.
All right.
And this is, again, just to be consistent with the way that we've set up all of our tests prior to
this one.
So now that we have our query params, what I'm going to do is create my root object, which I can do
by invoking my create root function from above and we can pass in my create params right here.
Right.
So now we have that root object that looks like this, right?
And we want to pass this root object to our create config function because it's going to use it to set
up the mock.
So we have something to represent this dot dollar sign root in our test component.
So right here I'm going to.
Create a rapper.
I'm going to shallow mount my job listings component and to provide its configuration object.
I'm going to invoke create config and I'm going to pass it my route object from above.
All right, so what do we want to test?
We want to test that in this wrapper, we have a piece of text that displays the page number.
And without any params, this should be page one.
Current page should have value to one because it should fall back to this string of one right here.
So what I'm going to do is invoke my wrapper text method to get all of the text that the user is going
to see in the DOM.
So forget all the elements.
Forget all the components.
Just give me the text that we're going to show to the user in the DOM in the actual display that they
see.
And somewhere in this text I expect there to be a substring of page one.
So I'm going to use that to match assertion and I'm going to provide a string here of page one.
That substring of page one should exist somewhere in my wrappers.
Text.
I'm going to save this.
And we're going to see if this works and indeed it does.
Again, apologies for the fact that we have this slightly awkward JavaScript syntax.
We typically don't explicitly write out undefined.
It's meant to be more of an implicit fallback to represent a missing value.
But in this scenario, we do need to make it explicit just so that we overwrite this property right
here to give us a query object that is good enough to play the role of this thing right here.
And that is a query object that technically does not have a page property, which we can get to by explicitly
assigning page two undefined.
All right.
Our next test is going to be a little bit simpler.
So what we can do here is write another described function block.
This is the alternate scenario.
So when query params include page number, we can write a description like it displays page number.
Kind of communicating that the clear params here play a role as far as determining what we want the
user to see.
So for the most part, I can copy most of the code from up above.
So I'm going to copy and paste the right here.
We're going to need to modify this test.
So obviously, instead of providing a page value of undefined, I do want to give a valid value here.
So how about we do page three.
Right.
So our create params are now existent.
They're now existent, existing, whatever is the right word.
We are going to have a page queer pram.
It is going to have a value of three.
We're going to create the right root object.
So that means our code is going to go through this logic right here and it's going to get the string
of three.
And so we expect when we execute all this logic, our wrappers text should match page three instead
of page one.
Let me execute this and let's see how we are doing.
All right, so everything is looking good and I'm pretty happy with our result here.
So we have successfully tested for the queer params, both when they're present and when they're not
present, and how they affect the user's experience of seeing the current page.
So I'm happy with these tests and now we can move on to the tests for our router link.